Hybrid Nodes Networking Docs (pod routing, webhooks, mixed mode clusters) (#906)
awsdocs/amazon-eks-user-guide: latest/ug/nodes/hybrid-nodes-cni.adoc

|Yes
|===

== Cilium considerations

> - By default, Cilium is configured to run in overlay / tunnel mode with VXLAN as the link:https://docs.cilium.io/en/stable/network/concepts/routing/#encapsulation[encapsulation method]. This mode has the fewest requirements on the underlying physical network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- By default, Cilium is configured to run in overlay / tunnel mode with VXLAN as the link:https://docs.cilium.io/en/stable/network/concepts/routing/#encapsulation[encapsulation method]. This mode is the most flexible to the configuration of the underlying physical network..
```

> - By default, Cilium link:https://docs.cilium.io/en/stable/network/concepts/masquerading/[masquerades] the source IP address of all pod traffic leaving the cluster to the IP address of the node. This makes it possible to run Cilium with Amazon EKS clusters that have remote pod networks configured and with clusters that don't have remote pod networks configured. If you disable masquerading, then your pod CIDRs must be routable on your on-premises network and you must configure your Amazon EKS cluster with your remote pod networks. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- By default, Cilium link:https://docs.cilium.io/en/stable/network/concepts/masquerading/[masquerades] the source IP address of all pod traffic leaving the cluster to the IP address of the node. This makes it possible to run Cilium with Amazon EKS Hybrid Nodes whether or not remote pod networks are configured on the cluster. If you disable masquerading, then your pod CIDRs must be routable on your on-premises network and you must configure your Amazon EKS cluster with your remote pod networks. 
```

- If you are running webhooks on your hybrid nodes, your pod CIDRs must be routable on your on-premises network and you must configure your Amazon EKS cluster with your remote pod networks. If your pod CIDRs are not routable on your on-premises network, then it is recommended to run webhooks on cloud nodes in the same cluster. See <<hybrid-nodes-networking#mixed-mode-clusters, Mixed mode clusters>> for more information.
- A common way to make your pod CIDR routable on your on-premises network is to advertise pod addresses with BGP. To use BGP with Cilium, you must set `bgpControlPlane.enabled: true` in your Helm configuration. For more information on Cilium's BGP support, see https://docs.cilium.io/en/stable/network/bgp-control-plane/bgp-control-plane/[Cilium BGP Control Plane] in the Cilium documentation.

> - The default IP Address Management (IPAM) in Cilium is called link:https://docs.cilium.io/en/stable/network/concepts/ipam/cluster-pool/[Cluster Scope], where the Cilium operator allocates IP addresses for each node based on user-configured pod CIDRs. The pod CIDRs are  configured with the `clusterPoolIPv4PodCIDRList` Helm value. Cilium allocates segments from the `clusterPoolIPv4PodCIDRList` to each node. The size of the per node segments is configured with the `clusterPoolIPv4MaskSize` Helm value. The `clusterPoolIPv4PodCIDRList` should match the remote pod network CIDRs you configured for your Amazon EKS cluster. For more information on the `clusterPoolIPv4PodCIDRList` and `clusterPoolIPv4MaskSize`, see https://docs.cilium.io/en/stable/network/concepts/ipam/cluster-pool/#expanding-the-cluster-pool[Expanding the cluster pool] in the Cilium documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The default IP Address Management (IPAM) in Cilium is called link:https://docs.cilium.io/en/stable/network/concepts/ipam/cluster-pool/[Cluster Scope], where the Cilium operator allocates IP addresses for each node based on user-configured pod CIDRs. The pod CIDRs are configured with the `clusterPoolIPv4PodCIDRList` Helm value, which should match the remote pod network CIDRs you configured for your Amazon EKS cluster. Cilium allocates segments from the `clusterPoolIPv4PodCIDRList` to each node. The size of the per node segments is configured with the `clusterPoolIPv4MaskSize` Helm value. For more information on the `clusterPoolIPv4PodCIDRList` and `clusterPoolIPv4MaskSize`, see https://docs.cilium.io/en/stable/network/concepts/ipam/cluster-pool/#expanding-the-cluster-pool[Expanding the cluster pool] in the Cilium documentation.
```

== Install Cilium on hybrid nodes

. Ensure that you have installed the Helm CLI on your command-line environment. See the https://helm.sh/docs/intro/quickstart/[Helm documentation] for installation instructions.
. Install the Cilium Helm repo.
+
[source,bash,subs="verbatim,attributes"]
----
helm repo add cilium https://helm.cilium.io/
----

> . Create a YAML file called `cilium-values.yaml`. The following example configures Cilium to run on hybrid nodes only by setting affinity for the `eks.amazonaws.com/compute-type: hybrid` label. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a YAML file called `cilium-values.yaml`. The following example configures Cilium to run only on hybrid nodes by setting affinity for the `eks.amazonaws.com/compute-type: hybrid` label. 
```

> - If you configured your Amazon EKS cluster with _remote pod networks_, configure the same pod CIDRs for your  `clusterPoolIPv4PodCIDRList`. For example, `10.100.0.0/24`.

Reviewer 2: Worth asking to validate that POD_CIDR doesn't overlap with the node cidr?

Even if pod cidr is not configured at the eks level, the pod cidr cilium uses (regardless if manually input or the default one) must not overlap with the node cidr.

Author: ah yea good callout. will add that

      - hybrid
  bgpInstances:
  - name: "rack0"
    localASN: [.replaceable]`ONPREM_ROUTER_ASN`
    peers:
    - name: "onprem-router"
      peerASN: [.replaceable]`PEER_ASN`

>       peerAddress: [.replaceable]`ONPREM_ROUTER_IP`

Reviewer: Can we provide guidance on how to find localASN, peerASN, and peerAddress, or at least what those values represent? I've always been the most ucerain at this step.

kubectl get crds -oname | grep "cilium" | xargs kubectl delete
----

== Calico considerations

> - It is recommended to run Calico in overlay / tunnel mode with VXLAN as the link:https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/networking/configuring/vxlan-ipip[encapsulation method]. This mode has the fewest requirements on the underlying physical network. For more information on the different Calico networking modes, see https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/networking/determine-best-networking[Determining the best networking option] in the Calico documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is recommended to run Calico in overlay / tunnel mode with VXLAN as the link:https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/networking/configuring/vxlan-ipip[encapsulation method]. This mode is the most flexible to the configuration of the underlying physical network. For more information on the different Calico networking modes, see https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/networking/determine-best-networking[Determining the best networking option] in the Calico documentation.
```

> - It is recommended to run Calico with `natOutgoing` set to `true`. With `natOutgoing` set to `true` the source IP address of all pod traffic leaving the cluster to the IP address of the node. This makes it possible to run Calico with Amazon EKS clusters that have remote pod networks configured and with clusters that don't have remote pod networks configured. If you disable `natOutgoing`, then your pod CIDRs must be routable on your on-premises network and you must configure your Amazon EKS cluster with your remote pod networks. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is recommended to run Calico with `natOutgoing` set to `true`. With `natOutgoing` set to `true` the source IP address of all pod traffic leaving the cluster is translated to the IP address of the node. This makes it possible to run Calico with Amazon EKS Hybrid Nodes, whether or not remote pod networks are configured on the cluster. If you disable `natOutgoing`, then your pod CIDRs must be routable on your on-premises network and you must configure your Amazon EKS cluster with your remote pod networks. 
```

- If you are running webhooks on your hybrid nodes, your pod CIDRs must be routable on your on-premises network and you must configure your Amazon EKS cluster with your remote pod networks. If your pod CIDRs are not routable on your on-premises network, then it is recommended to run webhooks on cloud nodes in the same cluster. See <<hybrid-nodes-networking#mixed-mode-clusters, Mixed mode clusters>> for more information.

> - - A common way to make your pod CIDR routable on your on-premises network is to advertise pod addresses with BGP. To use BGP with Calico, you must set `installation.calicoNetwork.bgp: Enabled` in your Helm configuration. For more information on Calico's BGP support, see link:https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/networking/configuring/bgp[Configure BGP peering] in the Calico documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A common way to make your pod CIDR routable on your on-premises network is to advertise pod addresses with BGP. To use BGP with Calico, you must set `installation.calicoNetwork.bgp: Enabled` in your Helm configuration. For more information on Calico's BGP support, see link:https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/networking/configuring/bgp[Configure BGP peering] in the Calico documentation.
```

> - The default IP Address Management (IPAM) in Calico is called link:https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/networking/ipam/get-started-ip-addresses#calico-ipam[Calico IPAM], where the `calico-ipam` plugin allocates IP addresses for each node based on user-configured pod CIDRs. The pod CIDRs are  configured with the `installation.calicoNetwork.ipPools.cidr` Helm value. Calico allocates segments from the `ipPools.cidr` to each node. The size of the per node segments is configured with the `ipPools.blockSize` Helm value. The `ipPools.cidr` should match the remote pod network CIDRs you configured for your Amazon EKS cluster. For more information on IPAM with Calico, see link:https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/networking/ipam/get-started-ip-addresses[Get started with IP address management] in the Calico documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The default IP Address Management (IPAM) in Calico is called link:https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/networking/ipam/get-started-ip-addresses#calico-ipam[Calico IPAM], where the `calico-ipam` plugin allocates IP addresses for each node based on user-configured pod CIDRs. The pod CIDRs are  configured with the `installation.calicoNetwork.ipPools.cidr` Helm value, which should match the remote pod network CIDRs you configured for your Amazon EKS cluster. Calico allocates segments from the `ipPools.cidr` to each node. The size of the per node segments is configured with the `ipPools.blockSize` Helm value. For more information on IPAM with Calico, see link:https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/networking/ipam/get-started-ip-addresses[Get started with IP address management] in the Calico documentation.
```

helm repo add projectcalico https://docs.tigera.io/calico/charts
----

> . Create a YAML file called `calico-values.yaml`. The following example configures all Calico components to run on hybrid nodes only by setting affinity for the `eks.amazonaws.com/compute-type: hybrid` label. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a YAML file called `calico-values.yaml`. The following example configures all Calico components to run only on hybrid nodes by setting affinity for the `eks.amazonaws.com/compute-type: hybrid` label. 
```
